[docs] Document the `TreeItem2` component and the `useTreeItem2` hook (#14551)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/tree-view/tree-item-customization/tree-item-customization.md

```

:::

## Hooks

### `useTreeItem2`

The `useTreeItem2` allows you to manage and customize individual tree items. You can use it to get the properties needed for all the slots, the status of the item or to tap into the interactive API of the Tree View.

#### Slots properties

The `useTreeItem2` hook offers granular control over the item's layout by providing resolvers to get the appropriate props for each slot. This allows you to build an entirely custom layout for the tree items.

The demo below should you how to get the props needed for each slot, and how to pass them correctly.

{{"demo": "useTreeItem2HookProperties.js"}}

You can pass additional props to a slot or override existing ones by passing an object an argument to the slot's props resolver.

```jsx
<CustomTreeItemContent
  {...getContentProps({
    className: 'overridingClassName',
    newProp: 'I am passing this to the content slot'
  })}
>
```

#### Item status

The `useTreeItem2` hook also returns a `status` object that holds boolean values for the different statuses of the tree item.

```jsx
const {
  status: {

>     expanded, // True if he item is expanded.

Author: Hmmm, maybe we don't need them 🤔

    expandable, // True if the item has children.
    focused, // True if the item is focused.
    selected, // True if the item is selected.
    disabled, // True if the item is disabled.
    editable, // True if the item is editable.
    editing, // True if the item is being edited.
  },
} = useTreeItem2(props);
```

You can use these statuses to apply custom styling to the item, or conditionally render sub-components.

{{"demo": "useTreeItem2HookStatus.js"}}

#### Imperative API

The `publicAPI` provides a number of methods to programatically interact with the Tree View. You can use the `useTreeItem2` hook to access the `publicAPI` object from within the Tree Item.

{{"demo": "useTreeItem2HookPublicAPI.js"}}

> You can read more about the public API methods on each feature page of the Tree View.

Reviewer: Not sure about the phrasing but I would be explicit about the name of the section to look for

```suggestion
Look for the "Imperative API" on each feature page to learn more about the public API methods available on the Tree View.
```

Author: Makes a lot of sense to me 🤔 I'd love @samuelsycamore's opinion here 🙏

### `useTreeItem2Utils`

The `useTreeItem2Utils` hook provides a set of interaction methods that allow you to implement custom behaviors for the tree view. It also returns the status of the item.

```jsx
const { interactions, status } = useTreeItem2Utils({
  itemId: props.itemId,
  children: props.children,
});
```

In order to override the default interactions of the tree item, you can set `event.defaultMuiPrevented` to `true` in the event handlers, and implement your own behaviors.

#### Selection

You can select an item of the Tree View by clicking its content slot. The demo below demonstrates how to handle selection when the user clicks on an icon.

> {{"demo": "HandleSelectionDemo.js"}}

Author: I am struggling to find a decent use-case/ idea for a demo for `handleSelection` and `handleCheckboxSelection` -> so any suggestions are welcome here.

#### Checkbox selection

By default, checkbox selection is skipped if an item is disabled or if `disableSelection` is `true` on the tree view. Creating a custom handler for the `onChange` event on the checkbox slot allows you to bypass these conditions. The demo below shows you how to implement a custom checkbox selection behavior.

{{"demo": "HandleCheckboxSelectionDemo.js"}}

To read more about the selection API visit the dedicated documentation page for the [Rich Tree View](/x/react-tree-view/rich-tree-view/selection/) or the [Simple Tree View](/x/react-tree-view/simple-tree-view/selection/).

#### Expansion

By default, a tree item is expanded when clicking the content. You can change the expansion trigger using the `expansionTrigger` prop to the `iconContainer`. Read more about the expansion API on the dedicated [documentation page](/x/react-tree-view/rich-tree-view/expansion/#limit-expansion-to-icon-container).

> To achieve a deeper customization of the expansion of an item use the `handleExpansion` interaction method. The demo below demonstrates how to introduce a new element that expands or collapses the item.

Author: `for deeper customization of Item expansion.` sounds a bit weird to me 🤔 not sure why. Maybe `for deeper customization of the Item's expansion behavior.`?
